A shell is a piece of software that acts as a bridge between the user and the operating system's kernel.

A shell's lifecycle, "REPL" (Read, Eval, Print, Loop):
* Read (The Prompt):
    The shell prints a prompt string (like $ or >) and waits for the user to type.
    It captures the raw string of text until the user hits Enter.
    It also listens for system signals, like Ctrl+C to interrupt a process.

* Tokenization (Lexing):
    The shell takes the raw string and chops it into "tokens".
    It handles quotes, escaping, and spaces.

* Parsing (Syntax Analysis):
    The shell analyzes the tokens to understand the grammatical structure.
    It identifies that | means piping data between two processes, and > means redirecting output to a file.
    It builds an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) - a data structure representing the logical execution order.

* Evaluation & Execution:
    The shell decides how to run the command.
    * Built-ins:
        Some commands must be executed by the shell itself (e.g., cd, exit).
    * External Commands:
        If it's not a built-ind, the shell searches the OS PATH environment variable to find the executable.
        It asks the OS to spawn a new child process.
    * Plumbing (Pipes and Redirects):
        Before launching the processes, the shell wires up the input and output streams.
        It connects the stdout of the first command to the stdin of the next.

* Print:
    The shell waits for the child process to finish (or runs it in the background if the user appended &),
    captures the exit code (0 for success, >0 for errors),
    and prints any final output to the terminal screen.

* Loop:
    The shell resets its state, prints the prompt again, and waits for the next command.

------------

Starting the shell:

1. Initialize ShellContext:
    Capture the OS environment variables,
    set up the initial working directory, and instantiate the mutable maps.

2. Trigger @Command Registry Scan:
    User reflection to scan the classpath, identify all classes annotated with @Command,
    instantiate them, and map their execution triggers (e.g., "cd", "ls", "echo") to the instantiated objects.

3. Start the REPL Loop:
    Begin the while(isRunning) loop that reads standard input,
    evaluates the input against the command registry, prints the result and loops again.

------------


POSIX signals:

When a user presses Ctrl+C in a terminal, the OS sends a SIGINT (interrupt) signal to the foreground process.
by default, the JVM intercepts this signal and initiates a graceful shutdown,
    triggering any registered shutdown hook before terminating the process.

I want Ctrl+C to interrupt the current typed command, not kill the entire shell.

Here is the API map and syntax to override this behavior using the sun.misc package.

The API resolves around two core components:
* sun.misc.Signal:
    An object representing a specific OS signal.
    I instantiate it with the signal's standard POSIX string name (without the "SIG" PREFIX),
        SUCH AS "int", "TERM", or "HUP".
* sun.misc.SignalHandler:
    An interface with a single handle(Signal sig) method.
    It dictates what the JVM should do when the specified signal is received.

The Signal class provides a static method handle(Signal SignalHandler) to register the custom behavior.

The SignalHandler interface provides two static,
pre-defined handlers mapping directly to standard OS-level signal dispositions:

* SignalHandler.SIG_IGN (Ignore):
    Instruct the JVM to completely discard the signal.
    The signal is dropped at the native layer, and no Java code is executed in response.
* SignalHandler.SIG_DFL (Default):
    Restores the JVM's default signal handler.
    For SIGINT, this means restoring the JVM shutdown sequence.

The Syntax:
To prevent Ctrl+C from terminating my Java shell, I register the ignore handler at the start of my application.

---
import sun.misc.Signal;
import sun.misc.SignalHanlder;

Signal.handle(new signal("INT", SignalHandler.SIG_IGN);
---

By executing this single line, I'm overwriting the JVM's internal native signal handler for SIGINT.
When the OS delivers the interrupt, the JVM sees that SIG_IGN is registered and swallows the signal.
The JVM's shutdown sequence is never triggered, keeping my REPL alive.
